# Hand Trajectory and Pose Extraction
*`Please note that although you can extract 3D hand trajectories and poses from egocentric videos captured under the same robotic platfrom, you still need many more engineering steps to transfer and inject these actions into your own dual-arm robots!`*

* **Step 1:** Install the environment [WiLoR: End-to-end 3D Hand Localization and Reconstruction in-the-wild](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12259) in your machine for conducting 3D hand mesh reconstruction. Refer its official website [WiLoR](https://rolpotamias.github.io/WiLoR/) for more detatils. The official github code [WiLoR-rolpotamias](https://rolpotamias.github.io/WiLoR/) contains both training and testing scripts which are heavy. I recommend you a more lightweight and user-friendly version [WiLoR-mini](https://github.com/warmshao/WiLoR-mini). Both of them relies on the huggingface [pretrained_models](https://huggingface.co/spaces/rolpotamias/WiLoR/tree/main/pretrained_models).
* **Step 2:** Record the left and right RGB videos of your designed bimanual tasks. The start and end times of each paired video are determined by your own hardware and specifications. For your reference, we have uploaded our recorded binocualr RGB videos of all six tasks in YOTO/YOTO++ and six another new tasks under [cam_left](./ExtractTraj/assets/cam_left) and [cam_right](./ExtractTraj/assets/cam_right). The `*.avi` videos were recorded in pairs, but they were not synchronized in time and contained segments irrelevant to the task. You can use [cut_videos.py](./ExtractTraj/cut_videos.py) to split them into frames. The corresponding folder with the same name contains the cleaned-up frames after manual synchronization and deletion.
* **Step 3:** Update the key information of your task in the [config.py](./ExtractTraj/config.py) file. The items for each task include `cam_l_name`, `cam_r_name`, `keyframe_id`, `gripper_state`, and `showing_ids`. At present, we find that automaticly extracted keyframes and gripper states via heuristic scripts are not quite reliable. Therefore, we recommend that you set these parameters manually. This only needs to be done once per task.
* **Step 4:** Run the [test_pipelines.py](./ExtractTraj/test_pipelines.py) file to extract 3D hand trajectories and poses from egocentric videos. Before running, your need to change the `test_wilor_paired_pipeline("xxxxxx")` at the bottom of this file. We utilize the left stream as the main view to extract and visualize results. Some processed results of our tasks can be found under the folder [results](./ExtractTraj/results). For example, we can obtain the [`Video_20241128090342905_drawer_v2.pkl`](./ExtractTraj/results/drawer/Video_20241128090342905_drawer_v2.pkl) file containing raw and coarse actions from egocentric videos. After real robot rollout verification, we can finally get the reliable fine-grained actions in [`Video_20241128090342905_drawer_v2_eep.json`](./ExtractTraj/results/drawer/Video_20241128090342905_drawer_v2_eep.json). Many more visualization results showing in our paper can also be found under it.
